Welcome back everyone.
It's good to see you here again.
And this session we're going to move into visualising CNN.
Let's start with the Africa key texture itself.
What you see here is a video G 16 which is use 16 stands for the title here is very deep convolution
all networks.
So the DG If you look at this architecture there are 16 layers here.
The layout count is based on one to the convolution layer tree for another two convolution near one
two three.
So we've gone four plus three Now Seven Seven plus three more makes it ten nine plus three more makes
it thirteen plus three more fully connected layer that is not shown here but I will show you in the
actual so-called paper itself if you look at see that's the configuration that you are looking at here
in terms of the sea.
This is the 16 weight layers you have one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve
thirteen plus the three fully connected the down here the next max players are not shown what we are
interested in and specifically are the convolution layers is designated as seal and B to D it's always
a mystery for for the longest time how neural network actually see the wall what kind of images does
it see.
So the best way to actually visualize this is to understand how each layer actually work.
So that's really the purpose of this session where we'll start with.
And just to gain an appreciation of the actual kernel itself what exactly is the kernel.
Let's come over to a store start or IO which I've open up for him
now an image kernel is basically what is called a small matrix.
This is used to apply effects on the actual picture itself could be blurring could be sharpening and
many many various so-called effects that you're trying to apply to the picture itself in machine learning
is called feature extraction and we convoluted through it and in future session we're going to look
at the mathematics beside it.
Now first of all let's start with an image.
Now you can see that this is a blur image as you move your mouse along and you notice that as I'm moving
along it follows along on the left hand side.
The actual core numbers to go with it you can see that high is 2 5 5 when I move to the black spot.
The number approaches zero.
So the number doesn't make or represent the actual color as from height or the way to black and ignore
the shades in between.
Now let me move up now if you apply a kernel ledges pick a blur Colonel and you will see that the images
becomes more blur.
That's because of the red cubes.
Can you see the red cubes of that nine red cubes that's moving around on the left side.
So when you actually choose this blur three by three matrix which is a nine cubes here as we moving
along while actually applying the so-called blurring effect on it.
Now these three by three red cubes are core kernels.
Every time when you actually apply these kernel and the actual so-called Operation is core convolution
it actually changes the underlying pictures on the left hand side is our input image as we apply the
So core kernel you get the output image on the right.
So there are other so-called handcrafted kernel we can choose bottom so well.
And this is what you get the bottom so well this is what the three by three looks like is minus one
minus two minus 1 0 0 0 1 2 1.
Okay.
So as you take the actual picture and apply the kernel to it the right hand pictures is the output that
you receive of course you can choose a whole lot of others you can add boss ID and a few others that's
the basic concept of Colonel.
You have your basic image.
You apply a colonel out come with is the output image will have the effect applied to it by the colonel
itself.
Now as you can see here there are a few common ones that is being listed.
What we actually wanted to look at is how those these Colonel actually work.
You can actually do more playing around with this pictures as you can see you can actually change the
three by three kernels a little bit to obtain the effects that you your you want to actually obtain.
So that's really the basic idea is you can actually look at a few other guidance down here like image
colonel here.
It's quite a good guide as well.
And although there is also a good guide and Wikipedia on the CNN How does it work.
Let let's come back here other things that I do want to show you is where we can actually visualize
and understand the actual convolution network itself.
So you look at the layer 1.
This is what you actually see is a three by three and ish cube here each block.
Here is another three by three.
So the layer one you can see these are all edges and they are fairly simple patterns as you go to deeper
layer.
So this is layer 1 as you move to layer two.
You can see that the patterns start to get more complicated and they actually get to lay a three.
It gets even more complicated.
The right hand side are the input images.
The left hand side is how this D.A. to CNN actually see.
You can see some of the wheel.
Which of the cars come through.
You can see some of these honeycomb comes true from the original picture.
And this is the original layer too.
You notice that the layer to these are more straight edges as you come to layer 3.
The actual pictures or the patterns the futures cannot start to actually pick up more more complex structures
and patterns as you go to layer for a start to become more abstract.
You can see some of the patterns of the nose and facial features of the dog.
And that's really the idea once you get to layer five you see even more complex you can do you start
to have curves in circles and look a whole lot of patterns start being actually observed here.
This is the basic idea of CNN.
You start off with the simple shapes the edges the corners and start to build up more and more and more
complex pattern.
The deeper you go into the layer itself.
This is a link that I provided here.
I would like highly encourage you to actually watch it.
I won't go through that here myself but I'll provide that link so that you can actually open it up in
your PBF to observe or at least watch his talk.
This is done.
If I remember correctly last year you might even be the year before this actually.
Here you can actually see the last year during the the conference.
Octavia works for Google.
He is also founder of a company later Toronto was bought over by Google.
He basically demonstrated to you how convolution No Leah actually CNN architecture actually work.
Do watch that video just to help you to develop some intuition of it.
What I wanted to do is actually show you Adam Hartley's Web site.
Again this is the link provided for you.
And we're going to go straight to it.
This is where you draw your number here and you can see each layer is visibility.
OK.
So what we will do here is that we will actually start drawing let us say we want to draw a simple number
one.
OK.
Immediately you can actually see the different layering.
Different.
So call how the each and every one of these kernel actually works.
So if we show the input there or hide it the employer's gone the convolution layer.
This is the first layer or high that if we look at the down sampling which is the max pulley that is
now gone.
If we look at the hide layer to see if I actually come over here and see if I can change it to to 2D
OK well it's gone too far.
OK.
What we were looking at are the 3-D.
Let's have a look at the 2D visualization.
It's easier to visualize using these.
OK.
So if I draw one here OK.
So this is the first one is the input layer.
The second one that's the convolution layer.
If we look at layer numbers two you notice that the image is high these so that you can actually see
where we are looking at.
Notice that the picture the patterns is substantially more complex as you get to convolution the 2 and
down sampling and fully connected.
As you can see is actually just one roll.
Oh yeah one row of pixel is no longer a matrix is just one row of pixels.
That's that's how fully connected layer works it's just basically one rule.
And that's the output layer.
And notice that it did picks up correctly that it is indeed a one.
So let's start though again with stop to now.
Let's have a look at our convolution layer too.
Again you can see that there are a few things that's being picked up here.
So this picks up the bottom layer.
Okay.
If we look at this one it picks up the left edges.
If you look at this picks up the top edges this one pick up the right edges and take this pick up the
left edges.
This again pick up the bottom edges the glow the lights in that part are the actual edges that this
layer this kernel here actually picks up.
You notice that that's basically you know each of these kernel kind of like a few too.
In fact that's the name that is also used to describe these either kernel or future.
It picks up different things.
OK.
You notice that they are different.
So core edges are being activated or excited.
You can see as I mentioned before this is the bottom layer the edges the horizontal edges both from
the bottom up.
This is from the top layer from top down.
This is from right edges.
This is left edges and this is right edges but towards the right a little bit and also towards the left
and a little bit.
So that's kind of like how convolution layer works.
And but it's substantially different when you come to the layer two of CNN convolution layer.
You can't really discern what it actually picks up anymore.
So if we go back to this and look at how it actually connects.
Yeah.
Again you can really see what is actually being picked up.
It comes from noticed that there are four sources that come from four sources.
This comes from four sources.
Yeah.
So that's this come from three sources.
And the actual down sampling is just from instead of If I roughly guessed is this is more like 20 by
20 matrix this go down to maybe a half 10 by 10 metrics a shot of counting the Matrix itself down something
just reduce the number of pixels and then the convolution layer perform another future ring of the so
called down sample layer.
So that's another visualization technique to highlight to you how CNN actually works.
You have the input layer
which we talked about the employer then you have to convolution layer which applied different filter
to it to extract key features makes pulling is to reduce the so-called features reduce down sampling
followed by you have another two convolution layer and in and then for and four there as you go right
there are other links here for you to visualize just now was the Adam Halley's website also provided
to either link for you to actually play around with it below for the intuition for now that's really
what I wanted to cover hopefully from this lesson you actually get some appreciation and understanding
of how each of these convolution layer works and then when we come back we're going to go into the more
technical part I understand all the different available types of layers and how they all work together.